## Discuss one challenge you overcame during your academic development. What was the challenge, was it technical, nontechnical, or both, and how did you overcome it?

Throughout my education, I have developed a unique set of skills and strategies that have allowed me to overcome various challenges. From managing a heavy workload to finding creative solutions to complex problems, I have found ways to adapt to new situations and overcome demanding environments. However, none of these challenges compare to my lifelong obstacle: ADHD. Starting in elementary school, there was an obvious issue. I had a good grasp of certain topics and no recollection of others. No one could understand why. It would take me until my freshman year of high school to get an official diagnosis, but I had known long before that. I had ADHD. Since this is a characteristic of mine, the challenge is nontechnical. When I would take 50-question exams as a kid, I have clear memories of just giving up and bubbling in answers randomly. This was not out of incompetence, it was out of boredom. As I grew older, I would come up with ways to cure this boredom and make doing a repetitive task not as painful. As I would take the test I would keep track of the numbers of A’s B’s C’s and D’s and see which letter would win. It was usually a pretty intense battle between B and C. As my schoolwork got more difficult, I would see more and more of how ADHD affected me. Homework was pretty much impossible for me until college, I could only start working on something if it was two hours before the due date, and zoning out during the most important part of a lecture was a guarantee. In college things started to click for me, I gained a better understanding of what I needed to do in order to succeed and had the motivation to make those changes. I researched ways that people in similar situations were able to overcome their challenges. I realized that I needed a strict routine for myself in order to accomplish goals that were trivial to most. I started to set deadlines for myself instead of using the assignment's deadline. Most of all I realized that I can only learn at my best when I have a strong interest in the subject and am sufficiently challenged. This led to me choosing my major in cybersecurity and finally being able to set good school standards for myself. In conclusion, although I faced many challenges in my time at school, the one that’s been around the longest and taught me the most by far was ADHD. Not only have I learned how to overcome this challenge in an academic environment, but I have learned to see my trait as a blessing and not a curse. Because of ADHD, I am able to pursue the things I am interested in with much more passion and drive, and I am always seeking challenging and rewarding activities. Overall, this challenge was one that ended up setting me down the right path and has given me the courage to handle any obstacle thrown my way.

## Discuss a situation where you worked with a team. How would you describe yourself as a teammate? Where can you improve your team skills? Be specific.

Throughout my journey as a student, I have been a part of countless teams. Some were for school projects, some for the sports I played, but the ones I enjoyed most have always been about computers. I am currently the president of the Cybersecurity Club at Charleston Southern University. I was honored to have been selected for this role and I take it very seriously. I am a strong believer that while having a leader is good, the strength of a team can only be measured by how they work together. In other words, you have to learn to be a teammate before you can be a leader. As a teammate, I would describe myself as hardworking, communicative, reliable, and respectful. I have always struggled to find the motivation to get things done when I was the only one holding myself accountable. Knowing that my teammates need me to get something done has always helped me shine in areas that I normally struggle with. I also love strategizing and coming up with creative ways to accomplish goals by working as a team. I believe that communication is the single most important characteristic of any team, and every successful team has excellent communication skills. I was not always the best at being a communicative teammate but I have spent a lot of time working on this and am confident in my abilities to speak and listen to my teammates effectively. As I mentioned previously, I feel much more confident in my ability to get work done if I know someone is depending on me. Because of this, I am a very reliable person when I am on a team. I hold myself to a higher standard and am harder on myself when people are counting on me. Finally, I would consider myself patient and respectful. Things can get pretty serious on teams, whether it be for sports, competitions, or just a collaborative effort. It is important to remember that above all else, we should be kind and understanding to each other. There are a lot of situations where it is easy to get frustrated or angry with someone else, especially if you are giving it your all. But in those times, it is imperative that we take a deep breath, and look ahead instead of getting hung up on whatever happened. Something that I have always struggled with is delegation. Delegation is a necessity for a team end ensures each person is actively working on something productive. I understand the importance of delegation but it is still one of my weaker areas. I find it difficult to take a task and split it into very even sections. I find that some sections are more boring to complete, or would take longer, and cannot help but feel bad giving someone a harder task than others. Overall I feel that I have had a lot of experience working in teams and consider myself a strong teammate. Although I have been a part of a lot of teams and have even stepped into leadership positions, I understand that growing as a person and as a teammate never stops. It is essential to have a regular habit of self-reflection and to avoid complacency.

## What type of career in CS do you believe you are most suited for? Why this field and not another? Be specific.

Computer science is a vast field with tons of different jobs and specialties that one could pursue. It can be overwhelming for a student to decide on just one or two main areas of interest. I love cybersecurity and have competed in a large number of cybersecurity events and competitions. I feel confident in my abilities in that area and know it is something I like doing. I also love programming, I have always seen programming as a series of puzzles to solve and thoroughly enjoy completing big projects and learning useful skills in a programming language. It was a tough decision for me to make but I have come to the conclusion that I would be most suited for a job as a cybersecurity analyst. While there are tons of areas in computer science I have enjoyed and feel I could be quite good at, a position as a cybersecurity analyst highlights what I am best at and what I enjoy doing. As stated previously I have competed in a lot of cybersecurity competitions and most of them were very well-rounded events focusing on protecting an entire network of machines. Some of the events even had a team of professional hackers to keep out during the allotted period. While I love programming and other areas of computer science like digital forensics, I already have a lot of training in this specific area and know that I enjoy doing it, even when it is challenging and complex. I have a strong interest in network security, system hardening and security, and data from cyber-attacks. I have learned to analyze security risks, identify vulnerabilities, and can implement security solutions to mitigate those risks. Although I already have competitive experience with this kind of job, I understand that I have a lot of learning to do, especially working in a more professional environment. But because of this experience, I am confident that I will enjoy learning more about the subject and eventually be able to call myself a professional in this area. Overall, the cybersecurity analyst position is what I believe suits me best, it highlights my strongest areas and I thoroughly enjoy learning more about each of the subjects. The job even allows room for some of my other passions like programming in the form of scripting. There will always be room for automation and efficiency in the cybersecurity analyst position and having a broad skillset will only help me in the future.


## What professional organizations would you like to join? What professional development would you like to be a part of in the next five years? Be specific and don't consider places of employment.

In the computer science field, there are tons of different professional organizations that are empowering, educational, and help to create a better world. I believe that people should always be seeking out these opportunities and take full advantage of these organizations to further their professional and personal development. Some organizations and other professional development opportunities that I would be interested in joining include the Association for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence (AAAI), the Information Systems Security Association (ISSA), and CompTIA Professional (formerly AIPT). Being someone who is looking to be a cybersecurity analyst, you might be wondering why my first choice is the AAAI. I am extremely interested in artificial intelligence and personally believe that it will be an extremely important and beneficial aspect of our society in the future. This organization could me stay up-to-date on the latest advancements in the field and might even be able to benefit my work as a cybersecurity analyst. I find the topic fascinating and would love to educate myself further on the subject, regardless of how applicable it is to my profession. The ISSA is a great way for me to learn more about things that relate to my career path and what I am interested in. In cybersecurity, you constantly have to stay up-to-date on everything that is happening in the field. Being a part of an organization like that is a great way to understand more about a subject, but also encourages you to learn about the advancement of the industry. Finally, a professional opportunity I would like to pursue is to be a Comptia Professional. I recently became a member of ISC<sup>2</sup>, passing an exam to get certified in cybersecurity. I learned a lot about the cybersecurity field by preparing for that exam and becoming a member of the organization. I would love to experience this with Comptia, a very well-respected organization that would further my professional development. Whether it be studying for and taking an exam there, or just becoming a member and interacting with other like-minded cybersecurity professionals, I believe that joining would be a great benefit to me. In conclusion, joining an organization or seeking out other professional opportunities can be a great way to not only further your understanding of a subject but to interact and connect with other people pursuing similar paths. I will definitely take advantage of these opportunities and would recommend any other aspiring or veteran professionals to do the same.

## What are the ways you can use the skills you have learned in CS to serve your community? Be specific.
